- I'm in here.
- We're talking about this.
So Chris and I talking
about different like ways
to protect yourself from heavy banding.
So heavy bands have always
been something like,
I don't know, every time you see like one
of those pull up assist bands,
you see somebody go wow I
wonder if I can use this
for a bicep curl and they go to curl it
and their wrist twists
or they go to do a pushup
with it and as soon as they
push themselves away like,
their wrists are being twisted like this
and they're damaging their joints.
- It's not comfortable--
- No.
- It's hard on your hands.
- Right, 100%, like you just
if you go heavy you just can't use them.
- But with the X3 bar
you can hold onto it.
- Right.
- The bar makes all the difference.
- The bar is just a
way to manage the power
of the band and then I
probably get 10 emails a day,
hey you need to come up with
a dumbbell design you know,
just a single handle but wait,
where do you handle more weight?
Barbells or dumbbells?
- Barbell.
- Right, of course, 20% more.
Yeah, there's plenty of research on this.
Why?
- I don't know, 'cause you're balanced?
- Ah, functionally,
your body knows if you're gonna
deal with something heavy,
you're not gonna deal
with it with one hand
so it actually causes
neural inhibition like,
if you got something heavy to pick up
would you pick up two heavy things?
Does that functionally make sense?
- No.
- No, it doesn't make sense and like also
that's like part of that
myth is like the idea
that when you curl you
have to get your pinky up
to like really build
the peak of your bicep,
total falsehood of
fitness, that's not true.
There's no research that shows
that that's true in any--
- Either way is fine.
- You could curl like this, like you know,
like a hammer, like it doesn't matter,
like you're shortening
the muscle, it's good--
- I always try to get my wrist out
because I have heard that.
- And you're hurting your
wrist when you do that.
- No, it kills.
- It kills, right?
Right, there's no good reason
for that kinda dumbbell work
and it's coincidentally
the strongest people
in the world pretty much
don't use dumbbells.
They get their strength from the barbells
so like that is why and like I told you,
I developed X3 so that you
kinda can't use it wrong.
- Like that's--
- Can't do a wide grip chest press
because a wide grip chest press is good
for a contest, not good for
growing your chest so it is,
like everything was done in a way
so that you're gonna get strong
whether you pay attention or not.
- That's interesting,
you said the strongest
people in the world,
I took a second to think, to sink in--
- Think about it.
- But you're talking about
like the worlds strongest man--
- Right.
- And all the power lifters and--
- The Olympic--
- Guys who are really like,
I'm gonna be the strongest guy out there--
- Yeah, they're always doing--
- Barbells.
- Yeah always doing--
- They're not used to them, right,
your whole body is going into a movement.
- Yeah.
- Right.
- Interesting.